<!-- dash: Content Security Policy | Guide | ##:Section -->

# Content Security Policy

## Overview

[Content Security Policy](https://content-security-policy.com) (CSP)
is an HTTP response header that helps reduce XSS risks by declaring
which dynamic resources are allowed to load.  Nitrogen supports CSP in
two ways:

  * Producing an appropriate HTTP header from a configuration.

  * Creating and exposing a nonce values for use in templates.

## Content-Security-Policy Header

If the configuration key `content_security_policy` is present in the
config (specifically via `wf:config(content_security_policy)`) a
header will be produced.  The format of the configuration is:

``` erlang
{nitrogen_core,
  [{content_security_policy,
    [
      {default_src, [none]},
      {script_src, [self, nonce, unsafe_eval]},
      {style_src, [self, "*.fontawesome.com"]}
    ]}
  ]}.

```

Each key in the proplist represents a CSP domain (e.g., "default-src",
"script-src", "style-src"); the value of each element is a list of
permitted sources.

Domains may either be atoms (as shown, with underscores instead of
hyphens) or strings (retaining the hyphens documented in the CSP
specification).

Sources might be strings (`"*.fontawesome.com"`) or atoms (`self`).
Strings are left untouched by the CSP header constructor; atoms are
translated into single-quoted strings.  The following atoms are
available:

  * none
  * self
  * data
  * https
  * unsafe_inline
  * unsafe_eval
  * strict_dynamic
  * unsafe_hashes
  * nonce

If the `content_security_policy` key is missing, no CSP header will be
generated.  (Although a nonce value will still be generated, see
below.)

## Nonce Values

Each first_request generates a 12 character nonce value which becomes
the `script_nonce` attribute of the `#context` record.  This value is
made available via `wf:script_nonce/0` and is appropriate for use in
templates, e.g.,

``` html
<script nonce="[[[wf:script_nonce()]]]">
  [[[script]]]
</script>
```

If a `content_security_policy` references `nonce` in its source list,
the value created for the header is `"nonce-" ++ wf:script_nonce()`.

## Note

Details on how to configure an appropriate CSP ruleset is outside the
scope of this document (and can be non-trivial).  Two Nitrogen
specific hints:

  * `script_src` will most likely require `unsafe_eval` due to the way
    Nitrogen handles browser communication; and,

  * `connect_src` will most likely require some specification for the
    websocket.

## References

- [Mozilla Developer Docs](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/HTTP/CSP)
- [content-security-policy.com](https://content-security-policy.com)
